final session of the day we have for you
Kyle Porter salesloft chief executive
officer Hilary Headley zoom Head of
Sales and Christina Foley fireEye vice
president of commercial sales please
welcome them to the stage all right
hey I am super excited for this session
we've got some wonderful content in
store for everyone thank you all for
coming out really deeper deeply grateful
for the opportunity so let's get started
we're gonna talk about something that
I'm thinking is near and dear to the
hearts of entrepreneurs and SAS
executives it's getting more revenue and
more productivity from your AES and
we've got a superstar cast of amazing
sales leaders and I want to first
introduce Hillary Headley in the white
chair in the middle
Hillary runs all of sales operations and
sales enablement for zoom video
communications and I think many are most
of us know who zoom is they are really
revolutionizing the way companies
interact with each other over video so
super excited to have Hillary here with
us today and Hillary you've been at a
couple of billion dollar companies so
Hillary was with previously with Alteryx
and my body running sales leadership
there so she's got tons of great content
and it's going to be incredible talk and
the next up is Christina Foley who is
the VP of commercial sales at fireEye
and fireEye is a four billion dollar
publicly-traded security company and
Christina also no stranger to big
growing businesses having spent time at
as its cisco and an iron port as well so
let's give a round of applause to our
two speakers i actually actually forgot
the biggest part that deserves a large
round of applause christina has three
seven-year-old daughters and hillary has
three boys as well so big round applause
for that also
yes okay cool
so before we got up on stage today we
were talking about some of the massive
trends that are going on in business and
what we realized is that the way buyers
and sellers are interacting has
dramatically changed there's no shortage
of information out there that talks
about how the the seller the the buyer
is more empowered than ever before
they've got more information than ever
before the seller no longer holds the
keys to the information that they need
but what's happened is it seems like
that's even that's the the buyers now
inundated with all of that information
they've got so many content so much
content sellers are leaving hundreds of
voicemails on their systems sending
thousands of emails and buyers are
trying to solve their problems which are
complex and increasingly difficult and
what they're doing is they're yearning
for our organizations to rise above all
of that noise out in the marketplace
deliver them with a better sales
experience and so we've seen some
changes and shifts happen in marketing
there's lots of content on what's
happening around the sales development
area but really this account executive
or closer or seller role is just so
close to the revenue and it's so
important that the productivity gains
there can be so instrumental to your
company so that's what we're going to
talk about today and what we identified
is that there's three areas that are
really important the people that you
have onboard the process that you enable
and the technology that you use so
Hilary I want to start with you let's
talk about people and I was inspired by
a gentleman named Mike Gamson he runs
the global sales organization for
LinkedIn he told me leaders leaders are
the most important thing leaders focus
on is identifying great talent inspiring
great talent and developing it let's
start with identifying great talent how
do you find great talent at Zoo
sure so hi everyone and thank you I
don't know it's necessarily a zoom so
I'm going to talk about you know
multiple companies that I've been a part
of but some of the ways that were able
to do that is we start with an ideal
hiring profile just like you have an
ideal customer profiles start with what
that is from a BDR to an SMB to
calm to an enterprise rep so if you're
in those motions where you're moving
from inbound to outbound have you
updated what that hiring profile looks
like for your group in HR to make sure
that they're finding not just folks that
can close hot leads but that are able to
go out and prospect and move a company
from cold to warm to hot that would be a
shift that you would want to look at
another one is encompassed ream and
focus on enterprise sellers you might be
excited to go and find some of those
heavy hitting companies but if they
haven't done a call without a sales
engineer in three years and you don't
have a sales engineering staff ready to
go you're going to want to make sure
that you're hiring profile is heavy on
tech and not necessarily around just
maybe mobilizing big buys internally so
you can align around that ideal hiring
profile at your different stages what
really helps next is to get a scorecard
and make sure that when you're
interviewing you have the right things
that everyone is aligning towards that
you listed in that profile why is this
important
because anytime a manager has open
headcount they typically have open quota
and they will be excited to close maybe
that first person and they might not be
the best person that aligns to what your
business needs and then last this is one
that companies will see if you have a
lot of inbound folks coming to you that
want to work there remember that just as
your sales might need to move from
inbound to outbound so might your
recruiting efforts so if you haven't
enabled your recruiters on your HR team
to understand what it's like to move
from getting people coming to them to
writing those really solid LinkedIn
emails to get the hooks for those good
folks that you should invest maybe a
little bit of time in there and make
sure that they understand how to make
that shift as well for you and again it
all kind of lines back up to that ideal
hiring profile so you have that nice
harmony between sales and operations and
HR can you double click on that ideal
hiring profile what is it for you and
what are the characteristics of the
people you're hiring yeah it really
varies I mean from at zoom we have BDR
SMB all the way up through to enterprise
and so they vary what I talked about
there that shift to inbound to outbound
that's definitely happening along with
that look at an enterprise seller that
maybe doesn't need to have as much
technical expertise excuse me that needs
to have that technical expertise and
make sure that they can knock those down
if there's not that sales engineer that
there so ours varies and we try to look
at them at the begin
every year to make sure we're all set I
heard a pro tip the other day at a that
I work with said when hiring Account
Executives they asked the candidate to
pull out their phone and talk about a
customer that they've text messaged with
to close a deal and I had never heard
that before but it makes so much sense
when I look at our business and the
deals we bring onboard even in financing
and raising capital so we've raised
seventy five million dollars you I can
tell you that we're not going to raise
money from an investor if I'm not
texting messaging with them and I can
tell you the big deals aren't closing if
someone's so that's just one tip that I
thought of that I had heard recently I
don't know if then you come to mind
along the way let us know okay so now
we're going to go out and identify great
talent bring them into the organization
the second thing was inspiring that
talent Christina how do you get your
Sales Executives
are your closers on board with the
mission of the company so that they come
in just ready to rock and roll all in
for the business yeah so I'm passionate
about this I always say inspiring talent
and it goes hand-in-hand with retaining
talent those that are inspired and like
what they're doing and feel valued will
stay with a company will stay with you
and so when I look at that I really
think about whether it be a team of
people or an individual that I'm
bringing on and growing is help them
understand what is your mission
what are you doing every single day that
is tied to the greater strategy of the
business
so at fireEye you don't trying to solve
nation-state attack cybercrime that sort
of thing how do I help my individual
sellers feel like they're doing
something for the greater good whether
it be the mission of the company the
mission for the customer whatever it may
be and then on a reoccurring basis
remind them of that understand as
individuals individuals what are they
motivated by how do we recognize those
individuals along the way and some
people are really motivated different
and inspiring a motivation I feel like
are really parallel tracks here so I
might be as inspired by career growth
where someone else wants to be
recognized for a win and so I look at
each individual and I recognize them
differently but at the end of the day at
the core it's really making sure what
what each rep feels like they're doing
on a daily basis come
to the surface and they feel valued and
that they're making an impact to the
greater good of the business I love that
you know tying it back to the mission
and what the company is doing that makes
the world a better place
you know everyone wants to do something
that's not just about a paycheck right
and you know if I was working at zoom
imagine now the people that can connect
and build relationships and the impact
they can have on each other's lives I
actually have a zoom room in my house in
Florida and and sometimes my wife and
kids are in the zoom room and I'm at the
office connecting with them so it's not
a business purpose but like that's a
meaningful thing that happens and you
know we obviously do with our customers
as well and then securing the world's
companies right this is something that
if you wake up every day and you go in
and your company is changing the world
in these amazing ways that's important
to story to tell and retail in retail
you know from the day they come on board
to the third year fourth year fifth year
they're cool okay Hillary so we got we
have great people they're inspired they
know that working at zoom they're going
to connect with people in authentic ways
and build relationships and and they're
gonna help their customers do that how
do we how do we get them ramped up for
the specifics of the AE role so that
they're most effective they're yeah so
ramp I know is a really popular one out
there and it usually starts with what
your new hire training our sales academy
looks like I'm always a little surprised
when no matter what company I go to
folks will say well they should have
learned that a new hire training and I'm
like that is their first five days at a
company they're trying to figure out
where to park where the bathroom is for
their manager is did they sign up for
the right job like they didn't learn the
intricacies of closing a deal in some of
those areas so I would always challenge
folks of what is the outcome that you
want your new hire training to be and be
very intentional about that so one of
the things that I've done in Prior
companies I just took over enable minute
zoom so we'll do this soon but what are
the top 20 things that you want your
reps to walk away with and why is it 20
because you can structure your five day
a week new hire training two sessions in
the morning to afternoon and that's
where adults can really learn and that's
about what they can take in in a day if
you make it interactive those top 20
then things be very cognizant and share
that with sales leaders or other folks
and say this is what they'll learn and
they will have mastered this is what
they won't but this is how they'll learn
it this is
when and this is who will teach them and
it starts to get a lineman around if
your productivity metrics aren't exactly
where you want them to be it's not a
quick point to a new hire training
you've really set that piece up and then
it allows you to be very candid of the
other areas that need those additional
spots and kind of attention for reps I
think you can just kind of wrap that
around then just as a general best
practice is if you have folks coming
into your new hire training and ramping
them and it's just a series of death by
powerpoints or open QA without a ton of
structure your folks probably aren't
going to be walking away with what they
should be very clear with what they need
to learn teach them what that is have
them say it back to you do interactive
skits do drawings make them do
whiteboard certifications whatever it is
that gets them talking doing sharing and
all of those pieces that will help in
those five or ten or however many days
that you have for ramp if it is about
culture and having those pieces that'll
happen naturally I think when you're
able to structure it that way but again
that intentional of these are the 20
things they will learn this is what they
will not learn but this is who how and
when can be a really great way to get
that harmony going around ramping well
rinse that absolutely the the the
importance of ramp it can't be
understated no I I learned this through
my journey as a CEO because you know as
we went out we raised a Series C round
last March fifty million dollar round
and we're modeling as we scale the
business and that that lever on ramp is
so important for what it does in the
future of the company right and so for
everyone out there that is starting a
business or is an early stage is like
once you get that sales momentum that
number is so critical how fast can you
hire the right people and then how long
does it take them to ramp up and then
which ones do you lose right retention
it being so important but like I just I
started modeling out okay what if the
ramp goes from six months to five months
what if the enterprise ramp goes quicker
right and the in the Delta on that is
just insane so a very critical and
important role and then once I ramped
and and by the way how do you define
ramped yeah so I've defined it five
different ways and I think it depends
what company you're at and where there
and evolution so the first can be time
to first deal is a measure of
productivity and ramp time to full quota
which is an important one when you are
setting your annual plan and what you
can maybe change to get some big gains
then there's the average number of reps
attaining quota which typically is about
50 to 60 percent in sass the average
attainment of those reps so it could be
that your reps are taining at on average
105 or 80 percent and then the average
revenue per rep so there's a lot of
different ways on how companies measure
productivity and for me it's varied at
the companies I've been to and where
they're at and what they want to measure
and sometimes how many reps they're
hiring at any given time so are you
doubling down on making your reps more
productive rev per up is gonna be a big
one are you banking your plan on hiring
new reps and ramping them faster time to
first deal on time to quota might be
more important productivity metrics now
we want to retain our reps that are
ramped up and one way to do that
Christina we talked about is ongoing
development of those executive account
executives talk a little bit about how
you do that if IRI yeah so number one is
we always look at really what does good
look like how do we identify sellers
within the organization that are doing a
great job that have attributes you know
the sellers DNA that sometimes you can't
really define it perfectly until you see
that person doing it so we really make
sure that we have defined
characteristics of you know really great
sellers and then we ask ourselves how do
we measure them how we recognizing and
rewarding them and how do we reinforce
their behavior
and that's the big thing I mean we
talked about ramps ramping them but
reinforcing what they're doing on a
regular basis so we oftentimes I mean
whether it be wind wires whether it be
that's a win wire so they're they're
definitely spontaneous but when we take
down a deal that was either you know a
customer never thought we would get it
was a fortune 100 but what if you know
it was all products and services and we
send that out to the entire company
oftentimes we get the stamp of approval
from our CEO we have him send it out so
it's a great way to basically you know
publicize what we're doing within sales
public
sighs what the reps are doing and really
enforcing reinforcing the good behavior
we believe especially being a publicly
traded company we have to be a little
bit careful about what we can say
externally but internally we really try
to give as much information around the
opportunity and what the seller did that
was successful so we try to really
reinforce that behavior over time
whether it be in public acknowledgement
on you know we're also really maniacal
on regular frequent cadence to make sure
we're following up accordingly and
building them awesome talk a little bit
about you've got we've got our Account
Executives but there's so many roles
around those players you just need to
talk about how that kind of inner
working of the team helps them be
productive and generate more business
yep so I call it a supporting cast and I
think any seller any leader within sales
recognizes that there are teams of
people behind you trying to make your
jobs and your lives easier and the one
thing that I think about as a Sales
Leader all of the time I tell my team
this at the beginning of every year hey
I work for you you guys don't work for
me and so my role as a leader is to take
the friction out of the business and
make their job easier so I would work
with someone like Hillary and Sales
Operations to say what can we do to
automate to refine our process - and it
could be anything from how do we how do
we quote better - how do we process an
order but really how do we take any bit
of friction out of the business to make
the job of a seller easier the other
piece that Hillary talked about a bit
was enable min how do we leverage our
enablement teams to really train
consistently as a global organization we
need to be sending the same message out
this saves the same sales pitch we want
our customers basically whether you be
across the world and Japan or you're
here in Silicon Valley we want we want
everyone to hear what is fireEye we're
pitching the same thing that's hard to
do and the other one or play books and
enable enablement really rallying around
that and the last one which is most
important is what I would call sales
engineers and you know calm your your
work husband your work wife whatever but
you better have that number on speed
dial to have your se you better love
them and thank them all the time
they end up being trusted advisors
within your company especially when you
have a really technical product and so I
believe those relationships are critical
yep when you were talking it it gave me
some ideas of some quick tips that I
wanted to share and then think about
your own - because I might ask you what
that reminded me of is we identified
that many of our reps were engaging with
prospective customers and they were
selling in hi to the executives there
and those executives desired some
executive connection and so I'm sure
everyone has seen this in sales but what
we did was we started where this concept
of the draft on behalf of and what that
meant was the rep would draft up an
email and then they would send it to me
with the executives and I would tweak it
to my liking as it pertains to my
understanding of their business or how I
wanted to connect with them and we
actually liked it so much we developed
it into a little technology that ran
inside that runs inside of Gmail but
that was a really easy way for us to say
hey customer you know our CEO would like
to connect with you and learn a little
bit more about what you're doing then
what we did which I thought was even
more effective is once we got customers
in once we acquired a new customer I set
this rule up in Salesforce that would
say if customer comes in and deal is
closed one above 50k is the threshold I
put on you know you may do differently
then it would automate an email from me
to the rep saying congratulations on
bringing company XYZ into sales loft
we're super excited I'd like the
opportunity to connect with them would
you forward this email to them and CC me
so they the minute the rep goes into
Salesforce and hits closed one boom the
actual inbox that they go in their inbox
they have an email from me and they can
forward that and so just things like
this that reminded me when you're
talking about that surrounding cast
being able to keep up that continuity of
of the buyers journey in the
relationship so add any tips along the
way if they pop into your head but we
are talking about the surrounding
journey right and Christina what happens
after the customer comes on board
because today we know of course and SAS
and in subscription economy that that
first deal is just a piece of it
that's right that's so yes so you say
you mentioned about the first deal you
know many people know this it's land and
expand how do you take a customer and
grow them over time we also at fireEye
and I'll quote Vasu or CMO we believe a
customer's journey is an infinite loop
it goes around and around and around and
around it never ends and so we really
take that to heart but if we talk about
land and expand the biggest thing is how
we take care of our customers how we
value our customers they become apostles
for us and they're willing to make more
investments with fireEye or whatever
company you're with or they're willing
to be a reference or they're willing X Y
& Z right so it's really important that
we that we think about what's our
customer post-sale how do we take care
of them and there's a lot of things that
we can do small companies big companies
whether you have smaller customer
advisory boards we give out quarterly
awards to the chief security officer
that we believe has made some major you
know changes and advancements in there
in the security world whatever it may be
and so we really try to recognize our
customers along the way make them feel
special but we we we also know that our
brand sits within our customers and if
we ever walk away from that we lose the
opportunity to expand and become even
larger from a brand perspective so we
take that very seriously awesome in that
supporting cast is the manager's Hilary
in your leadership experience we talked
a lot about how important they are and
great leaders are the ones that are
enable enabling other leaders to do
their job so talk a little bit about
that relationship and and what you see
the importance there on the leadership
side yeah absolutely I'm starting to get
like more passionate about this in 2019
which is sales enablement seems to
almost be exclusively for sales reps and
I think we've forgotten our managers and
there's some some things out there that
I feel like a manager ratio some of the
companies I've heard or even been at
have been 50 to 120 to 1 and I'm not
sure then that that can really be a
successful recipe if you want to really
Bank your number on ramping your ups and
having them be more productive if you
need someone who knows how to run a 1 to
1 a pipeline call a plan
you an MBR whatever it is that all the
great sales managers are doing if
there's not even a normal rep to manager
ratio and you're not surrounding them
after you typically promote them
internally I think we're missing out on
a really key ingredient around rep
productivity is what does that look like
again from like ratio - are they set up
to do that did they get certified and
trained to be there as a sales manager
still to the tune where I hope that is
something we can do a zoom where we
assign someone just to focus on our
manager enablement to make sure that
they have what they need and I think I
don't know what the right ratio is but
20 managers 30 managers that's really
important multiplier and mobilize in
effect that I think companies can have
that takes it a little bit off the rep
because that's a lot of pressure just to
put on reps we I think we need to
surround our managers with just a lot
more enablement in the coming years and
I'm very excited what are the what are
the best ways to enable managers what
are the like any tips on that I heard I
don't know that any of them are
tried-and-true best practices so I'm
nervous about tips but I think there's a
couple things that might pop out making
sure that if you want to promote
internally you have the right kind of
tests in there are they a good rep that
can do it but are they like consciously
competent to be able to explain this is
what it would look like to be a good rep
and other people can replicate it so can
they take their skills and replicate it
and mobilize other people to do it I
think would be one thing to make sure
that you can test for that and then just
being open about it and having the right
manager meetings and structures and
trainings down to giving them one-to-one
sheets I mean I use a 1 to 1 sheet and
sales operations just because I'm as you
as Kyle is you know I'm a little
structured and planned and some of the
sales managers saw it and said we want
to ask those same five questions to our
reps and keep this same conversation
going when I have 15 20 people so even
just the intake of communication I think
for some new managers if you haven't
done it a lot just helping them
sometimes with the basics I think can go
a long way so I'll crack that code yeah
here in a year and then write something
about it on LinkedIn so everyone can
learn yeah I'll try okay we'll bring you
back on stage I was just going to say
that you know one of the things that we
think about that we've really embodied
at fire and at some other
specifically at fire I is understanding
the characteristics of a leader what
does what are the characteristics of a
great leader do they understand the core
values of the company do they know how
to cross-pollinate different
organizations so that they can
communicate together and they can act as
a liaison or a bridge how do they manage
their how do they manage their money
like are they fiscally responsible and
so there's a core we've got seven or
eight characteristics that we live by
core values for leaders and there are
specific things that we expect our
managers our senior managers or
directors senior directors VPS VPS
there's expectations that we set for
them the great thing is if you're if
you're extremely transparent about what
they are and you help them understand
how they can get there and for those
that want to grow it's a recipe for
success does the executive do that does
HR team do that who does that leadership
development so from from HR will educate
someone like myself and then I will go
and help my team my direct managers
along the way so I've been educated we
spent two days behind closed doors
really understanding the values of the
company how you promote and how you
promote leaders and managers not just
individual contributors and then
hopefully we're ready and and tuned
enough to go out and do that let's flip
it up a little bit here I've identified
attention in sales and this tension
arises from the fact that the best way
to connect with a buyer is in an
authentic sincere engaging and relevant
way but on the other hand companies need
to scale they need to create repeatable
process they need to be able to forecast
you know show their plans to their board
or management and those two things often
come in conflict because you know when
companies emphasize on the scale side
they may blast their customers and be
insincere and when they emphasize on the
connection side they may not figure it
out in a way that's repeatable talk a
little bit about and I'll start with you
Hilary what's your theory on automation
and then also if you've got any ideas
around technologies that you're using
our tools that are helping you sure
automation is a big one it is the
foundation of scale if you will I think
there's kind of two different buckets
for automation that I try to look at
it's not only what's manual and
repetitive and that should definitely be
automated for any
that's there in a smart way and then
there's the automation of those things
that can and should be that can and
should be repeated but are difficult if
you don't have kind of a human heart and
head in front of them and both of those
matter I think for scale because like
you said the one gives you the speed and
efficiency games and the other gives you
what you need to do to kind of do it
fast and do it in that in that fast
manner I've never heard a buyer who said
oh your sales process is so cool you
know like that's the coolest sale front
is the sales experience that they
receive is what matters to them the most
right it's basically speed of trust so
how can you get enough out there to like
cast a wide net and then how do you
bring them in really fast to get the
trust there I think there's three tools
in you know in the past couple years
that have popped up to really help with
that
I love alliteration and they all have an
Ellen M so that also helps me remember
them but LinkedIn sales Navigator is a
big one just even find those folks who
are they do your diligence do your
research bring them into your system if
they don't come to you through LinkedIn
there's a great tool called lean data
that can help map your entire go to
market session if you have things like
you have a geo with a vertical with a
named model to get the right lead to the
right rep the right at the right time
and then to be able to reach out to
those folks in a scaleable yet sensible
and with a head and a heart way is a
tool like sales loft I think for those
of us I don't know if there's a sales
ops audience you know we used to build
Marketo workflows that would then tie up
into and give you a sales force task of
task one do this test to do this like
thank goodness something like sales loft
came along to help our reps be able to
do that and to keep our content going
out there that has the consistent
messaging that we all want to be able to
have around what those are so yeah
between LinkedIn like a lean data and
sales loft I think that's that was a
really perfect marriage at a couple
prior pre-ipo companies it's ironic you
said that about marketing automation
because the last speaker who was up here
is David Cummings who was the founder of
par dot and I actually found it sales
loft in the part offices watching them
do similar things and having a lot of
those difficulties so that was a lot of
the inspiration and thanks for the shout
out really appreciate it against
yourself and we love we love the three
of those solutions as well and the way
they all integrate together it really
makes things more simple Christina what
do you think about this concept of
automation and
kind of the balance there I think it's
necessary I mean we were talking about
this earlier is we we live in a world of
immediacy and people are expecting
answers and responses as quick as
possible and they want to be sold to
immediately but the reality is you know
you can't be insincere you have to be
efficient but as a seller it does it
does sort of often feel and sincere if
you don't do it right we do use sales
loft a little plug for you but it's the
truth we use sales loft really to make
sure that we have the right messaging at
the right time to the the people that
are raising their hands and saying
please come to me please talk to me
we're interested in fire I and that's
our opportunity to really build that
immediate trash trust while doing it
efficiently and the big thing and I we
were talking about this as well as
because of the world of immediacy for
some reason it goes hand in hand with
people want to buy from people they like
because they have lots of choices at
their fingertips so what sets you apart
what sets you apart is being unique
authentic and and sort of transparent
and so it's really how quickly can you
get in front of the customer being
authentic for them to like and trust you
and then knowing just as a side note
knowing their IP is protected with
whatever tool you're using their
customer data is protected that they're
being taken care of yeah yeah you talk
that's really important this side of
trust I think you know we talked a lot
about this sales experience and Gartner
says that 53% of customer loyalty is
derived by the sales experience so if
that's not important I don't know what
is but what's more important that is
that your customers trust you and I
think we've entered this era today where
there's so many cloud applications so
much data everywhere yeah you know that
that security side if you're not focused
on that as a business leader today
you've got to dive in you know go
through your sock sock compliances get
protected everywhere because that's how
you're going to be able to acquire
bigger and bigger customers that it's
data matters you know a couple tips came
up for me on the automation side a few
things I've seen that I've been really
neat one is I saw a company two years
ago gentleman from service Titan Kevin
Dorsey he showed me this really neat
structure where these leads were coming
into his business and they automatically
would identify what industry they were
in and what persona they were in so it
could be electrical you know
general contractor and that would
automatically route down a path to
communicate in a cadence with them based
on the language around what they
responded to so there's some really cool
things you can do there the other one
that I saw was a company when they
closed lost a deal they would pick lists
the reason that they closed lost it and
that would kick off a chain of sales
prompted emails that would go out to the
customer that were very relevant to that
that need so a couple other cool things
that that I've seen well hey I am so
proud to have had the opportunity to sit
with both Hillary and Christina thank
you for your contributions here they're
awesome and thanks all of you for being
here let's give a round applause to our
panelists